README.md, before:

# cFp_Triangle
cloudFPGA project (cFp) for a triangle communication example

**Idea**:
```
   CPU  -->  FPGA  -->  FPGA 
    /\___________________|
```

All communication goes over the *UDP/TCP port 2718*. Hence, the CPU should run:
```bash
$ ping <FPGA 1>
$ ping <FPGA 2>
# Terminal 1
nc -u <FPGA 1> 2718   # without -u for TCP
# Terminal 2
nc -lu 2718           # without -u for TCP
```

Then the packets will be send from Terminal 1 to 2. 

For more details, `tcpdump -i <interface> -nn -s0 -vv -X port 2718` could be helpful. 


The *Role* is the same for both FPGAs, because which destination the packets will have is determined by the `node_id`/`node_rank` and `cluster_size`
(VHDL ports`piFMC_ROLE_rank` and `piFMC_ROLE_size`).


The **Role forwards the packet always to `(node_rank + 1) % cluster_size`** (for UDP and TCP packets), so this example works also for more or less then two FPGAs, actually.



For distributing the routing tables, **`POST /cluster`** must be used.
The following depicts an example API call, assuming that the cFp_Triangle bitfile was uploaded as image`d8471f75-880b-48ff-ac1a-baa89cc3fbc9`:
![POST /cluster example](./doc/post_cluster.png)

## Firewall issues

Some firewalls may block network packets if there is not a connection to the remote machine/port. 
Hence, to get the Triangle example to work, the following commands may be necessary to be executed (as root):
```
$ firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=2718-2750/udp --permanent
$ firewall-cmd --reload
```

Also, ensure that the network secuirty group settings are updated (e.g. in case of the ZYC2 OpenStack).

Commit message:

Rebased to cFp_Vitis, renamed from triangle app to harris app and rempved unused ROLE/2.

README.md, after:

# cFp_Vitis
cloudFPGA project (cFp) for Xilinx Vitis library

**Idea**: The `cFp_Vitis` project bridges the accelerated libraries of open source [Xilinx Vitis](https://github.com/Xilinx/Vitis_Libraries) to [cloudFPGA](https://pages.github.ibm.com/cloudFPGA/Doc/index.html) platform. 
```
   CPU  -->  FPGA (Vitis)  -->  FPGA (Vitis)
    /\___________________________|
```

![Oveview of cFp_Vitis](./doc/cFp_Vitis.png)


All communication goes over the *UDP/TCP port 2718*. Hence, the CPU should run:
```bash
$ ping <FPGA 1>
$ ping <FPGA 2>
# Terminal 1
nc -u <FPGA 1> 2718   # without -u for TCP
# Terminal 2
nc -lu 2718           # without -u for TCP
```

Then the packets will be send from Terminal 1 to 2.

For more details, `tcpdump -i <interface> -nn -s0 -vv -X port 2718` could be helpful.


The *Role* is the same for both FPGAs, because which destination the packets will have is determined by the `node_id`/`node_rank` and `cluster_size`
(VHDL ports`piFMC_ROLE_rank` and `piFMC_ROLE_size`).


The **Role forwards the packet always to `(node_rank + 1) % cluster_size`** (for UDP and TCP packets), so this example works also for more or less then two FPGAs, actually.



For distributing the routing tables, **`POST /cluster`** must be used.
The following depicts an example API call, assuming that the cFp_Triangle bitfile was uploaded as image`d8471f75-880b-48ff-ac1a-baa89cc3fbc9`:
![POST /cluster example](./doc/post_cluster.png)

## Firewall issues

Some firewalls may block network packets if there is not a connection to the remote machine/port.
Hence, to get the Triangle example to work, the following commands may be necessary to be executed (as root):
```
$ firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-port=2718-2750/udp --permanent
$ firewall-cmd --reload
```

Also, ensure that the network secuirty group settings are updated (e.g. in case of the ZYC2 OpenStack).
